* W10 READINGS 
" 
I have learned a great deal this week about how to validate forms for
proper user experience both on desktop and mobile. This week's studies
show that it is good practice to make our forms on the web page more
user-friendly by providing easy-to-use and rich features. Doing so will
save server traffic by validating user input before sending it to the
server. Respond immediately if there is any mistake in user data without
waiting for the page to reload. It also shows that we can use our
mark-up elements to set our validation such as required, pattern, text,
number, date etc.

Again, one of the most relevant and professional ways to validate our
forms is to use JavaScript. JavaScript provides us with the facility to
validate our forms on the client side so data processing will be faster
than server-side validation. Most web developers prefer JavaScript form
validation. Because through it, we can validate names, passwords,
emails, dates, mobile numbers, and more fields too.

It is learned that the reason for this validation is to make sure we are
sending the right information to our server and to check to make sure
all the mandatory fields are filled in appropriately.

Another knowledge gained this week is from how we can use fetch API. It
provides us with a JavaScript interface for accessing and manipulating
parts of the protocol, such as requests and responses. It also provides
us with a global fetch method that provides an easy and logical way to
fetch resources asynchronously across the network.

Also, we could use the fetch method to return a promise that resolves
into a response object...then get the actual data, we could also call
one of the methods of the response object. For example, text or json.
method would resolve into the actual data.

Thank you, sir.

Dagwan Panâ€™an Danladi
" 

 
 

 